#1.1 Introduction to Software Engineering 
“Software engineering is a discipline in which theories, methods and tools are applied to 
develop professional software product.” 
In software engineering the systematic and organized approach is adopted. Based on the 
nature of the problem and development constraints various tools and techniques are applied in 
order to develop quality software. 
The definition of software engineering is based on two terms : 
 Discipline : For finding the solution to the problem an Engineer applies appropriate 
theories, methods and tools. While finding the solutions, Engineers must think of the 
organizational and financial constraints. Within these constraints only, he/she has to find 
the solution. 
Product : The software product gets developed after following systematic theories, 
methods and tools along with the appropriate management activities. 

#1.2 The Nature of Software 
Software can be applied in a situation for which a predefined set of procedural steps 
(algorithm) exists. Based on a complex growth of software it can be classified into following 
categories. 
 System software : It is collection of programs written to service other programs. Typical 
programs in this category are compiler, editors, and assemblers. The purpose of the system 
software is to establish a communication with the hardware. 
 Application software : It consists of standalone programs that are developed for specific 
business need. This software may be supported by database systems. 
 Engineering/scientific software : This software category has a wide range of programs 
from astronomy to volcanology, from automative stress analysis to space shuttle orbital 
dynamics and from molecular biology to automated manufacturing. This software is based 
on complex numeric computations. 
Embedded software : This category consists of program that can reside within a product 
or system. Such software can be used to implement and control features and functions for 
the end-user and for the system itself. 
Web applications : Web application software consists of various web pages that can be 
retrieved by a browser. The web pages can be developed using programming languages like 
JAVA, PERL, CGI, HTML, DHTML.
Artificial intelligence software : This kind of software is based on knowledge based 
expert systems. Typically, this software is useful in robotics, expert systems, image and 
voice recognition, artificial neural networks, theorem proving and game playing.
 
#1.3 Defining Software 
Software is nothing but a collection of computer programs and related documents that are 
intended to provide desired features, functionalities and better performance. 
Software products may be : 
1. Generic : That means developed to be sold to a range of different customers. 
2. Custom : That means developed for a single customer according to their specification. 
 1.4 Software Engineering Practice 
Following are some principles that focus on software engineering practice. These are the 
principles that are suggested by David Hooker 
1. Reason for Existence : The intention of software system is to provide value to its users. 
2. Keep It Simple Stupid(KISS) : Software design must be simple to implement and the 
resultant software system must be more maintainable and less error-prone. 
3. Vision : The goal and objective of the software must be defined. 
4. The produce is getting consumed : While developing the software system, the 
documentation must be maintained so that the maintenances of the system becomes easy. 
5. Be Open to future : If some changes need to be incorporated in the system, then those 
must be accommodated easily. 
6. Plan for Reuse : The software system components can be made reusable so that the time 
and efforts can be saved. The programming techniques like Object oriented programming 
can be used for it. 
7. Think : Before performing every software engineering activity think and understand it.
