#2.1 Requirements Engineering  
Requirement engineering is the process of 
Establishing the services that the customer requires from a system. 
And the constraints under which it operates and is developed. 
The requirements themselves are the descriptions of the system services and constraints 
that are generated during the requirements engineering process. 
What is a requirement ? 
A requirement can range from a high-level abstract statement of a service or of a system 
constraint to a detailed mathematical functional specification.
The requirement must be open to interpretation and it must be defined in detail.

#2.2 Requirements Engineering Tasks  
-Requirement engineering is the process characterized for achieving following goals - 
-Understanding customer requirements and their needs 
-Analyzing the feasibility of the requirement 
- Negotiating the reasonable solutions 
- Specification of an unambiguous solution. 
- Managing all the requirements of the project 
- Finally transforming the requirements into the operational systems 

#2.3Class-Responsibility-Collaborator(CRC) Modelling 
-The Class-Responsibility-Collaborator modelling is a technique which helps in identifying
and organizing the classes that are relevant to the system requirements. Using this 
technique the classes required by the system are identified their responsibilities are defined 
and their collaborations are identified. 
-Ambler has described the CRC modelling as : “The CRC model is a collection of standard 
index cards. This card is divided into three sections. 
The first section contains name of the class, type of 
the class and characteristics of the class. Then the 
second section is described at the left side and third 
section is described at the right side of CRC card. 
The second section describes the responsibilities and 
the third section describes the Collaborations. 
-Class - For selecting particular entity as a class 
following guideline can be used - 
1. Information retaining : There are some objects that have potential of retaining the 
information. This information can be used by the system for defining the functionalities. 
Hence chosen object must contain some useful information. 
2. Services : The set of identified objects specify the required services. These services are 
provided by the various functionalities of the system. Hence the objects must be chosen in 
such a way that they provide some services to the system. 
3. Common attributes : Every object defines some set of attributes. These attributes can be 
member variables or member functions. Some member variables are common to all the 
objects. The selection of object can be done based on such common characteristics of the 
system. 
4. Common operations : Every object defines some set of attributes. These attributes can be 
member variables or member functions. Some member functions are common to all the 
objects. The selection of object can be done based on such common characteristics of the 
system. 
5. Multiple attributes : The object that contains multiple attributes can retain more 
information about the system. Such object can provide some useful service to the system. 
While selecting particular entity as an object it is necessary to ensure that the chosen object 
has multiple attributes. This will lead to focus on major information.
6. Essential requirements : The external entities are responsible for producing or consuming 
some kind of information. These entities can act as an object. Selection of such entities as 
an object helps to perform various operations that are required for getting the solution of 
the problem defined by the system.
 
Fishersmith has suggested following types of classes. 
1. Device classes : The external devices can be declared as the classes such as keyboard, 
mouse, display, control panel 
2. Interaction classes : The interaction among various objects can be represented by the
classes. For example : Account or a purchase 
3. Property classes : When particular property of the problem environment has to be 
represented then it can be represented by a class. 
Various characteristics of objects are : 
1. Tangibility : Does the class represent the tangible thing or represent an abstract 
information? 
2. Sequentiality : Whether the class is concurrent or sequentially defined? 
3. Inclusiveness : Does the class include other class or it is independent of other class? This 
represents atomic or aggregate property. 
4. Persistence : Is the class permanent or temporary ? Sometimes the class created at the 
design time are removed during the implementation. Such classes are temporary classes 
and there are some classes that remain in the database. Such classes are called permanent 
classes. 
5. Integrity do the class allow other resources to access it or does it protect itself from other 
resources ? If the class does not allow other resources to access itself then such classes are 
called guarded and if the classes allow other resources to access itself then such classes 
are called corruptible.